Incorporating Human Behavior in Epidemiological Models (IHBEM) (nsf24507) | NSF - National Science Foundation


Heading<h1>: Incorporating Human Behavior in Epidemiological Models (IHBEM):
Heading<h2>:  Program Solicitation NSF 24-507:
Heading<h2>: Replaces Document(s):NSF 23-546:

<TABLE START>:
R0: C0: "" C1: "" C2: "National Science FoundationDirectorate for Mathematical and Physical Sciences     Division of Mathematical SciencesDirectorate for Social, Behavioral and Economic Sciences     Division of Behavioral and Cognitive Sciences     Division of Social and Economic SciencesDirectorate for Biological Sciences     Division of Environmental Biology" 
R1: C0: "National Institutes of Health    National Institute on Drug Abuse" C1: "" C2: "" C3: "National Institutes of Health    National Institute on Drug Abuse" 
R2: C0: "" C1: "" C2: "National Institutes of Health    National Institute on Drug Abuse" 
<TABLE END>:
The above text between "<TABLE START>" and "<TABLE END>" is a table formatted in plain language. It contains rows and columns and some rows may have more columns than others. Each row starts with "RX:" where "X" is the row number, starting at 0. Each column in each row starts with "CY:" where "Y" is the column number, starting at 0, followed by the text contained in the column, which is surrounded by quotation marks.





Submission Window Date(s)
 February 01, 2024 - February 14, 2024
 February 1 - February 14, Annually Thereafter

Heading<h3>: IMPORTANT INFORMATION AND REVISION NOTES:The only changes are to the due dates and NIH/NIDA related updates in Section II. Program Description and the Special Award Conditions in Section VII. Award Administration Information.
Any proposal submitted in response to this solicitation should be submitted in accordance with the NSF Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG) that is in effect for the relevant due date to which the proposal is being submitted. The NSF PAPPG is regularly revised and it is the responsibility of the proposer to ensure that the proposal meets the requirements specified in this solicitation and the applicable version of the PAPPG. Submitting a proposal prior to a specified deadline does not negate this requirement.

Heading<h3>: SUMMARY OF PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS:
Heading<h4>: General Information:


Program Title:
Incorporating Human Behavior in Epidemiological Models (IHBEM)



Synopsis of Program:
The Incorporating Human Behavior in Epidemiological Models (IHBEM) Program supports research that incorporates research on social and behavioral processes in mathematical epidemiological models. The program provides support for projects that involve balanced participation from the mathematical sciences and from the social, behavioral, and economic sciences.



Cognizant Program Officer(s):
Please note that the following information is current at the time of publishing. See program website for any updates to the points of contact.
 - Zhilan J. Feng, Program Director, MPS/DMS, telephone: (703) 292-7523, email: zfeng@nsf.gov
 - Joseph M. Whitmeyer, Program Director, SBE/SES, telephone: (703) 292-7808, email: jwhitmey@nsf.gov
 - Katharina Dittmar, Program Director, BIO/DEB, telephone: (703) 292-7799, email: kdittmar@nsf.gov
 - Susan Wright, Program Director, NIH/NIDA, telephone: (301) 443-1124, email: susan.wright@nih.gov
 - Amina Eladdadi, Program Director, MPS/DMS, telephone: (703) 292-8128, email: aeladdad@nsf.gov
 - Trisha Van Zandt, Program Director, SBE/BCS, telephone: (703) 292-8740, email: pvanzand@nsf.gov



Applicable Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) Number(s):
 - 47.049 --- Mathematical and Physical Sciences
 - 47.074 --- Biological Sciences
 - 47.075 --- Social Behavioral and Economic Sciences
 - 93.279 --- National Institute on Drug Abuse

Heading<h4>: Award Information:


Anticipated Type of Award:



Estimated Number of Awards:
Approximately 10 to 15 awards from this competition may be made by either NSF or NIH at the option of the agencies, not the grantee. The number of awards will depend on the quality of received proposals and budget availability.



Anticipated Funding Amount:
Up to $5,500,000 per year for new awards (up to $3,500,000 from NSF and up to $2,000,000 from NIH/NIDA), subject to availability of funds and receipt of meritorious proposals, with total budgets of up to $1,000,000 for an award duration of 3-4 years.

Heading<h4>: Eligibility Information:


Who May Submit Proposals:
Proposals may only be submitted by the following:
 - Institutions of Higher Education (IHEs) - Two- and four-year IHEs (including community colleges) accredited in, and having a campus located in the US, acting on behalf of their faculty members. Special Instructions for International Branch Campuses of US IHEs: If the proposal includes funding to be provided to an international branch campus of a US institution of higher education (including through use of subawards and consultant arrangements), the proposer must explain the benefit(s) to the project of performance at the international branch campus, and justify why the project activities cannot be performed at the US campus.



Who May Serve as PI:
There are no restrictions or limits.



Limit on Number of Proposals per Organization:
There are no restrictions or limits.



Limit on Number of Proposals per PI or co-PI:



It is the responsibility of the submitters to confirm that the entire team is within the eligibility guidelines.

Heading<h4>: Proposal Preparation and Submission Instructions:


A. Proposal Preparation Instructions



Letters of Intent:



Preliminary Proposal Submission:



Full Proposals:
 - Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg.
 - Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide).
